---
title: "Working with Mayra Andrade"
excerpt: "A few weeks ago, I started working on a a very special project. Cape Verdean singer Mayra Andrade got in touch to help her put together her new live show..."
coverImage: "/assets/blog/working-with-mayra-andrade.jpg"
date: "2021-04-06T00:00:00.000Z"
---

A few weeks ago, I started working on a a very special project. Cape Verdean singer Mayra Andrade got in touch to help her put together her new live show. She told me she would be releasing her 4th studio album early 2019 and the tour was already starting in October 2018. She wanted to start playing the songs of the forthcoming album on stage for this new tour even though the album wasn’t out yet. Her expectations were high as she hadn’t been touring in the last year and a half and she wanted to showcase an updated musical identity.

I had been following her work for a long time. I programmed her music on the radios I worked for, I played her songs in my Dj sets and I even gave a shot at remixing her ‘Tunuka’ a few years ago (which didn’t go very far). I secretly tried many times to perform her songs on the guitar in my bedroom. Only a few weeks before she got in touch, I saw her on stage as a part of Gilberto Gil’s live show here in Lisbon and she blew everyone's mind. She stole the show all the way through. She had such a unique and powerful way of interpreting Gilberto Gil’s songs. Gil himself is an incredible stage performer in his own right, so having those two together interacting on the same level was a revelation for many people who didn’t know Mayra’s stage personality. Her name was on everyone’s mouth after that epic concert.

The job she hired me for was the following: she wanted me to help her and her musicians adapt her forthcoming album - which was produced by Romain Bilharz and 2B from both electronically programmed beats and acoustic instruments - into a consistent and engaging live show played by a 4-piece band. This meant capturing and sampling the many electronic elements of her album as well as finding the appropriate way to get those triggered or reproduced by instruments on stage. My mission was also to help adapting some of her older songs to a new electronic make-up and to make the songs of the new album exciting in a live context.

I was present during the 3 weeks of rehearsals to give feedback to the band, which turned out to be quite a demanding experience. Rehearsals often lasted for over 10 hours and the timeframe was short to get 15 songs - including 10 or so which Mayra had never played on stage - arranged and rehearsed. On a technical level, we ended up getting all the sequences triggered by drummer Tiss Rodriguez on 2 Roland SPD’s and a sensory percussion kit from Sunhouse. Most of the synth textures were reproduced by keyboardist Nicholas Vella on a Prophet 5 and a Kronos workstation. Bass player Swaeli Mbappé used a Moog Sub Phatty to play the electronic basslines. Also, Mayra wanted to experiment with electronic textures on her voice. We ended up adding an effect rig made of auto-tune, pitch-shifters, filters and a reverb to her live setup.

I was around for the 3 or 4 first concerts of the tour and all I can say is they are an incredible band. Mayra’s stage presence and ability to shake the audience’s emotions are legendary. Feedback from the crowd was more than encouraging as people were hearing some of their favourite Mayra Andrade songs (like Tunuka, Lua or Ilha de Santiago) being totally revisited. This project was by far the highlight of my musical year and one of the most exciting yet challenging projects I have ever been a part of.

watch [Mayra's new band perform \"Afeto\"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ml2aEduVnDM) - [\"Vapor di Imigrason\"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cVAhHaoNvNs) - [\"Manga\"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zUc0cXMp-sQ) in Paris on the 3rd date of their "Manga Tour".
